Hello, welcome back to the course on deep natural language processing.
Today, we're looking at the bag of words model.
First thing I'd like us to look at is an email, an email I received just a few days ago.
So here we go.
The e-mail is about to catch up and my friend is asking.
Hello, Carol.
Checking if you're back in Oz Oz sense for Australia.
Let me know if you're around and keen to sync on how things are going.
I defo, as it definitely could use some of your creative thinking to help with mine.
Cheers.
And so what I'd like us to pay attention to first of all, of course, you can see that I sent this
email to myself, but that's just because I wanted to keep my friend.
Actually, it is because I read your reply to the email and then I wanted to send it.
And also I wanted to keep my friend, keep his privacy.
But this is a real email.
This is the exact text that I got literally a couple of days ago.
And the title is different, but I just called.
I changed to catch up.
And so what is interesting about this, we're going to be looking at how we can apply natural language
processing to this email in the next couple of tutorials, and it will help us work with a real life
example.
And then the other thing is that here you can see in Google, the G.M. app for iPhone, you can see
that is giving me some suggestions.
Very interesting.
And saying I was really giving you some quick replies that I can use.
It can be, yes, Emerald, I'm back or sorry, I'm not very interesting.
So let's keep that in mind and we will come back to this later.
In the meantime, text of the email is here.
What can we do with it?
All right.
So first things.
We're going to start off simple.
We're going to create a model.
We're going to look at how we can create a model that will give us an A yes.
No response, because that's one of those questions.
The question is, are you back in Australia?
Let me know if you're around and keen to see.
So, yes, no, of course, it's better to have a long response.
And that's that's the social norm.
And it's it's added the etiquette to like converse with people and just say yes, no.
But even let's try to get a yes or no response.
Let's see how would go about that, because that's a first step into an LP.
And then further on, we will see how we can expand that even more.
All right.
So we're going to start off with with a vector, a vector or a just like an hour a a full of zeros,
let's call it vectors.
These like that.
So just zero zero zero zero.
How many zeros?
Well, a lot of zeros.
Twenty thousand elements in total.
Twenty thousand.
Why is that?
Well, it's because of the way that we're building as well.
Twenty thousand is the number of words that are commonly used by the average native English language
speakers.
So here's a quick search on Google.
How many words in the English?
So that's the search I took.
I came up with how many words are there in the English language?
Hundred seventy one thousand point seventy six words.
That's how many entries in the Oxford Dictionary, plus some obsolete words plus derivative words and
so on.
But also people also you can see Google's giving a suggestion that more subtle adult native test takers
range from 20 to 30, trained to thirty five thousand words, average native test takers of age eight
or ten thousand words, average native test takers or, you know, 5000 words as an adult native test
takers learn almost white, whatever this is going into detail.
But the interesting thing here is that Hami, like what I wanted to point out, first of all, twenty
thousand.
And we will see why exactly is this number not more.
What I wanted to point out is how many words are there in the English language?
Even this in its own is actually Google is applying natural language processing.
It's it's looking at what we wrote.
And then it's also checking other similar answers.
How many boards in the English language does as other person, the average person?
No.
So that's not the question I ask.
But it came up with that.
Then it came up of many other questions.
So you can see that the irony is that even in this search on its own, we're ready.
Falling victim of natural language processing.
Even though that wasn't our intention.
That's not what we're gonna be talking about.
But it's just funny that it came up anyway.
So 20000 words.
And fun fact is that we actually use about 3000 words out of those one hundred seventy one thousand
four hundred seventy six words.
We only use 3000 words, not just in conversational language.
But you can see here a vocabulary of just 3000 words provides coverage for around 95 percent of common
texts.
Ninety five percent of common text that I got, assuming that's including books and stuff like that.
So if you do the math, it's one.
Only use one point seventy five percent of the total number of words in the English language.
So as you can see, even that three, like our twenty thousand, is more than even the three thousand
that covers 95 percent of the situation.
So we're pretty good.
We're definitely covered if we say that our vocabulary.
All possible words that we can encounter is going to fit into a vector of 20.
So every basically what we're saying, this is important.
What we're saying is that every word in the English language has a position somewhere on the spectrum.
So, for example, this the word if could have this position.
So if you count one, two, three, four, five, six, the seventh position in our custom made a vector
is that word.
If it's always gonna be on that position, that's very crucial for this.
For instance, the word badminton.
Let's just say like that we can construct this vector any way we want.
The word badminton could be on this position.
There's always gonna be on this position and the word table is gonna be on this position.
And this is like how this bag of words model works.
So just keep in mind that once you like was we've taken over twenty thousand words and then we've assigned
them a space.
That's where they that's what they will this base in this vector will be associated with.
It will be associated with the word we have.
This will be associate with badminton.
This will this position will be associated to a table.
And the other thing is here you can see a great out the first two in the last one.
First two are going to be reserved for Source and AOS.
So stance for start of sentence, us stands for.
End of sentence.
And the last one will be reserved for special words.
And that's for those words that you're wondering about.
Second.
I can hear your brain churning right now.
What about those other one hundred and fifty thousand words that we didn't take into account?
What if they come up?
Well, if they come up, we're gonna just associate them with this with this lost thing.
This last element where you just throw them all in there.
Any kind of words that we kind of recognized in the twenty thousand.
Let's throw them into that last element.
All right.
So let's go back to our e-mail text.
Here it is.
Hello, Carol.
Checking if you're back in Oz.
Let me know if you are around, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Cheers.
And so let's see how this can be put into our bag of words.
If you've probably noticed by now that this is our bag of words that we're constructing here.
So now we're going to throw the text into this bag of words.
How is that going to happen?
I'm just going to throw it in and then I'll just I'll explain how it happened.
So there it is.
That's the result.
That's all, of course, depends on how we construct our victory.
But this is our result in the way we construct our victory.
Let's let's look at this way.
So we've as we've discussed previously, we took the 20000 thousand words and we associate each position
with a word.
And now we go through our text and find and then like increase the counter in each position of the associate
word.
So hello.
Let's say in our viqueira, it is in position number five because we only have one.
Hello in this whole email.
We're going to put a one here.
Carol is definitely not an English language work, so we're gonna have to put it into there.
And the reason why there is three here is because we have Carol, then OR's and these those are non
English language words, not among twenty thousand.
They're all gonna go here.
Then we've got the comma surprise.
The comma also has a position.
Let's say it was in position number said three six, seven, eight, nine.
So the ninth position is associated with a comma because we have one comma in our e-mail.
Oh, actually, we have two commas, OK.
So this should be a two.
But let's there's something about that comma.
Let's let's forget about that comma.
I didn't notice it.
So assuming we have one comment or email, this is a one checking.
So let's say that this this element is associated with the word checking.
This is a one because it's only one word checking if it's a two, because we have two ifs in our email.
So it's going to be it to you two because we have to use in our email, including the rest of the text.
I don't think there's any more use in there.
And so on.
So that's basically how we fill this bag of words we just put in.
The the quantity of words for every position is pretty straightforward.
We're just filling in this vector.
As you can see, it's gonna be quite a spa specter.
There's gonna be lots of zeros, almost twenty thousand zeros, and some of the words are gonna be filled
in.
OK.
So what is our goal?
So our goal, as we discussed before, is to come up with a reply yes or no to this email, which is
now in the form of a vector.
And how are we going to do that?
Well, we're going to do it through training data.
So we're going to look at all the e-mails that I have replied to, because this is us training a model
to reply to my e-mails or in your case, in anybody's case, is going to be training a model to reply
to their emails.
We got to look at training data.
We're going to need some trained it.
I'm going to fish it out of the inbox or outbox.
So let's say let's look at a couple.
So here we've got.
Hey, mate.
Have you read about Hinton's capsule networks?
And General replied to that.
No.
So we're going to use that as a training example.
Next one.
Did you like that recipe essential last week?
The answer was yes.
It was a good recipe, I guess.
So there we go.
So now we have two, three.
Hi, Carol.
Are you coming to dinner tonight?
Yes, dear.
Carol, would you like to search your car with us again?
No.
Are you coming to Australia in December?
Yes.
And so on.
So ideally, we would have tens or hundreds of thousands of e-mails like that and responses like that.
Yes.
No responses.
Of course, would be like a lot of groundwork to get that data because we usually don't just respond.
Yes.
No.
Two emails.
So we'd have to look at this answer and understand what was the sentiment.
The sentiment was no.
What was the overall?
Was it a yes or no?
No.
Yes or no?
It's OK.
Of course, it is kind of more of a theoretical example.
Nobody is going to do this for their own inbox.
But nevertheless, the point stands.
So how would we train?
How would we use the stream data?
We would use a similar principle and convert each one of those emails to a vector in this.
And again, each vector would be 20000 elements long.
So, you know, I just threw some numbers in here, too, to get the point across.
It's not exactly accurate, but so we have these vectors like lots of lots and lots of pictures, lots
and lots and lots of responses.
Yes and no.
And yeah, so now what we're going to do is we're going to.
Apply and model.
Once we have all this data, we're going to apply model.
So one of the models we can apply to create our backup words or one of the algorithms we can apply to
create a backboards model is the logistic regression.
So we apply the logistic regression to our yes.
No responses to these to this information that we have.
And then.
Once we have that model, once we've separated, so we know we kind of like we've modeled what goes
what goes into a yes, like what's what is likely to yield a yes, what is likely to yield know the
border between them.
Then we can feed our actual email that we got into this bottle and then get a response service, for
instance.
Yes.
And that's it.
So we use all the training data to create a model.
We feed in our actual e-mail, which this is important, which has exactly the same format.
So you can see that every input here, every every time we would train the data.
The independent variable, the independent variable vector always had the same length.
Twenty thousand and always had the same format.
We know that this position always corresponds to a certain word.
This position is always a certain word.
This position, let's say, one, two, three, which I wish, where was it, one, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine.
So this was what?
No.
This one is the if.
Right.
So this corresponds to it or something.
So we know that it's it's the same format.
It's always the same length.
Twenty thousand.
So we can safely feed in this vector into there.
It's got the same number of features.
We get an answer.
So for instance, we get.
Yes.
So.
And then we can like look back.
Oh.
What did actual e-mail say.
It said hello.
Carol check.
OK.
So based on my training, I would have most likely reply to this with a yes.
Interesting.
The other approach we can take here, first of all, let's put this on our diagram is our diagram.
And that's a natural language processing algorithm, which is called back reports sits over there.
The other approach we could apply here or here is we could instead of a logistic regression, we could
use a neural network.
We could because we have a vector.
Right.
So we have all these vectors.
We could feed them into as an input layer, like over twenty thousand neurons into how our neural network.
They would go through one hidden layer to analyze Azmy Hitler's as we want our own decision on how to
structure it.
And then bam, we've got an output layer.
And tells us yes or no.
And so we again, would use all this data that we have here, all our millions and millions and millions
of emails and responses.
We'd use that to train on your own network.
All of all, through back propagation and stochastic gradient descent, all the weights would be updated
and bam, we have an answer.
So not bad.
We have an answer.
So we would use these answers here to train that.
I would use the pairs like the vector.
And the answer vector answer.
So to minimize the Aristarchus a gradient descent back propagation, updated weights, bam, we have
a neural network.
It's all trained up.
Now we feed in our vector here, which represents our new e-mail into the neural network.
And voila, we get our answer, as in this case might also be, yes, they might yield different cells,
but if the models are constructed well, more or less, it should be you coming up with similar or the
same answers most of the time as in this case.
We've got a deep natural language processing.
Then put the emphasis right there.
We've got a deep natural language processing algorithm.
Right.
Because we're using a neural network.
And that is different.
So in both cases, the bag of words model in one case is in an LP bag go Gabor's, in other cases a
deep and ILP bag of words.
But in both cases, it is still a bag of words and it has its own limitations.
And it has its own limitations and issues that are not that great.
And so I'll point out one of them right now is that that response is very simple.
It's just a yes or no.
Right.
Like, we want something more sophisticated.
We want like a conversation can really have a conversation, can really build a chadbourne if you're
just going to be saying yes no all the time.
So that's one of the limitations.
We'll talk about some more of them in upcoming tutorial.
And we'll also see how to overcome those limitations and what models await us in the future.
And I hope you enjoyed this, Taurel.
I really enjoyed going through all this with you together.
And I can't wait to see it again until then.
Enjoy it in natural language processing.